README.md, before:

# [Acuparse](https://www.acuparse.com)

AcuRite Access/smartHUB and IP Camera Data Processing, Display, and Upload.

> **Notice:** This program is open source 3rd party software. It is neither written nor supported by AcuRite.

## UPDATING TO VERSION 3

See the [Version 3 Update Guide](https://docs.acuparse.com/updates/v3) for detailed instructions.

## Live Example Station

***See Acuparse in action via [ghwx.ca](https://www.ghwx.ca)***

## How it Works

[Acuparse](https://www.acuparse.com) is a PHP/MySQL program that captures, stores, and displays weather data from an AcuRite
5-in-1/Atlas weather station and tower sensors, via your Access/smartHUB. It uploads weather data to
[Weather Underground](https://https://www.wunderground.com), [CWOP](http://www.wxqa.com), [Weathercloud](https://weathercloud.net),
[PWS Weather](https://www.pwsweather.com), [Windy](https://www.windy.com), and [Windguru](https://www.windguru.cz).
It also processes and stores images from a local network camera for display and uploads to Weather Underground.

Built for weather geeks and designed to be clean, simple, and mobile friendly. It uses a minimal UI with a focus on data,
not flashy graphics. Designed to compliment MyAcuRite and other 3rd party's sites and tools.

Acuparse requires a working AcuRite Access/smartHUB. You redirect weather data from your Access/smartHUB to your Acuparse
server. It is captured, stored, and then passed along to MyAcuRite untouched.
The response received from MyAcuRite is sent back to your Access/smartHUB. If sending data to MyAcuRite is disabled or
when using a SmartHUB, Acuparse creates the response.

## Features

- **Your weather data belongs to you, stored on your OWN server.**
- Display live camera images, send them to Weather Underground, and link from other sites like Weathercloud.
- Uploads weather data from your 5-in-1/Atlas and Tower sensors to external providers.
- Customize barometer readings.
- Light and Dark Themes.
- Display data in both &#8457; and &#8451;. Selectable default.
- Multiple tower sensors; public or private.
- Multiple admin or regular user accounts.
    - Regular users can only view private sensor data.
- Archived data display.
- Watch data flow using the syslog.
- Stays online even when MyAcuRite is not.
- Does not require internet access. Can be deployed independently of MyAcuRite.
- Export API with JSON and HTML data for use in external applications.
- Customizable email outage notifications.
- Google Invisible reCAPTCHA and Analytics support.

## Installation

> **Note:** If you are not using an Access, you will need to setup a DNS redirect using a DNS server on your local network.
>
> **Access Users:** The Acurite Access sends data to MyAcuRite using an SSL connection. By Default Apache will use the snake oil cert to serve over HTTPS.
> For most users, this should be sufficient. If you use a hostname, you will need to install and configure an SSL certificate.
> The installer will ask and attempt to generate a Lets Encrypt cert for you.

See [docs/INSTALL.md](https://docs.acuparse.com/INSTALL) for detailed installation instructions.

Installing on a fresh instance of a Debian/Rasbian Buster(10) or Ubuntu 18.04/20.04 is the only officially supported and tested install method.

### Quick Install

- Install the base Debian/Ubuntu operating system and update.
- Download and run the installer.

    ```bash
    curl -O https://gitlab.com/acuparse/installer/raw/master/install && sudo bash install | tee ~/acuparse.log
    ```

#### Docker Compose

See [docs/DOCKER.md](https://docs.acuparse.com/DOCKER) for detailed installation instructions.

On a newly installed Debian/Ubuntu System

- Download and run the installer.
    - If you already have Docker installed, see the Docker guide.

    ```bash
    curl -O https://gitlab.com/acuparse/installer/raw/master/install_docker && \
    sudo bash install_docker full | tee ~/acuparse.log
    ```

## Additional Outputs

The primary user interface uses AJAX to pull the most recent HTML formatted data every minute.

Acuparse includes a Display mode for better viewing while in full-screen.

- Display Mode: `http(s)://<yourip/domain>/display`
    - Force light theme: `http(s)://<yourip/domain>/display?light`
    - Force dark theme: `http(s)://<yourip/domain>/display?dark`

Additionally, you can request Bootstrap 4 formatted HTML, JSON array(s), or plain text formatted for watermarking.

- See the [API Guide](https://docs.acuparse.com/API) for details.

## Troubleshooting

See [docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md](https://docs.acuparse.com/TROUBLESHOOTING).

## What's Missing

- Advanced Data Reporting.
    - Reports can be run against the database. Open issues for custom report requests and tag them with the reports tag.
        - phpMyAdmin is an excellent tool for advanced manual reporting on your station.
- Charts and Graphing.
    - Since this is available at most external weather sites.
- Multiple Access/smartHUB/5-in-1/Atlas sensors.
    - The current framework built around a single Access/smartHUB and 5-in-1/Atlas sensor.

## Donations

If you like Acuparse, please support the project by buying me a coffee!

[![Buy Me a Coffee](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/orange_img.png)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/maxp)

## Licencing

Acuparse is open-source software. Released with an AGPL-3.0+ license. It also uses several other open source scripts.
Their licences included where available.

3rd party scripts located in `src/pub/lib`.

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more details.

## Support and Discussion

[Join the discussion on Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/acuparse/acuparse)

- Support for the core application/bugs is handled via [GitLab Issues](https://gitlab.com/acuparse/acuparse/issues).
    - You may also open a new issue by mailing [support@acuparse.com](mailto:support@acuparse.com).
- Community support is also provided via the [Users Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/a/lists.acuparse.com/forum/#!forum/users).

If you require advanced or commercial support, send mail to [hello@acuparse.com](mailto:hello@acuparse.com).

## Release Notes

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for detailed release notes.

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details.

Commit message:

Version to 3.1.0
Add Open Weather Map Upload
Fix North Wind
Fix Data Upload Timeouts
Fix Dashboard Time Updating
Fix Sensor Status Page
Fix Display Mode

README.md, after:

# [Acuparse](https://www.acuparse.com)

AcuRite Access/smartHUB and IP Camera Data Processing, Display, and Upload.

> **Notice:** This program is open source 3rd party software. It is neither written nor supported by AcuRite.

## UPDATING TO VERSION 3

See the [Version 3 Update Guide](https://docs.acuparse.com/updates/v3) for detailed instructions.

## Live Example Station

***See Acuparse in action via [ghwx.ca](https://www.ghwx.ca)***

## How it Works

[Acuparse](https://www.acuparse.com) is a PHP/MySQL program that captures, stores, and displays weather data from an AcuRite
5-in-1/Atlas weather station and tower sensors, via your Access/smartHUB. It uploads weather data to
[Weather Underground](https://https://www.wunderground.com), [CWOP](http://www.wxqa.com), [Weathercloud](https://weathercloud.net),
[PWS Weather](https://www.pwsweather.com), [Windy](https://www.windy.com), [Windguru](https://www.windguru.cz),
and [OpenWeather](https://openweathermap.org/).

It also processes and stores images from a local network camera for display and uploads to Weather Underground.

Built for weather geeks and designed to be clean, simple, and mobile friendly. It uses a minimal UI with a focus on data,
not flashy graphics. Designed to compliment MyAcuRite and other 3rd party's sites and tools.

Acuparse requires a working AcuRite Access/smartHUB. You redirect weather data from your Access/smartHUB to your Acuparse
server. It is captured, stored, and then passed along to MyAcuRite untouched.
The response received from MyAcuRite is sent back to your Access/smartHUB. If sending data to MyAcuRite is disabled or
when using a smartHUB, Acuparse creates the response.

### Direct to WiFi Consoles

Acuparse does not directly support the new AcuRite direct to WiFi Consoles. You may have success configuring these as
an Access & Atlas/5-in-1 sensor. Keep in mind, they do not support Tower sensors and there has been no official testing
of these devices with Acuparse.

If you have one of these consoles and want to assist in adding support to Acuparse, connect with us using the Support
channels below. We'll work with you to grab a capture of the data they send, allowing for future direct support.

## Features

- **Your weather data belongs to you, stored on your OWN server.**
- Display live camera images, send them to Weather Underground, and link from other sites like Weathercloud.
- Uploads weather data from your 5-in-1/Atlas and Tower sensors to external providers.
- Customize barometer readings.
- Light and Dark Themes.
- Display data in both &#8457; and &#8451;. Selectable default.
- Multiple tower sensors; public or private.
- Multiple admin or regular user accounts.
    - Regular users can only view private sensor data.
- Archived data display.
- Watch data flow using the syslog.
- Stays online even when MyAcuRite is not.
- Does not require Internet access. Can be deployed independently of MyAcuRite.
- Export API with JSON and HTML data for use in external applications.
- Customizable email outage notifications.
- Google Invisible reCAPTCHA and Analytics support.

## Installation

> **Note:** If you are not using an Access, you will need to setup a DNS redirect using a DNS server on your local network.
>
> **Access Users:** The Acurite Access sends data to MyAcuRite using an SSL connection. By Default Apache will use the snake oil cert to serve over HTTPS.
> For most users, this should be sufficient. If you use a hostname, you will need to install and configure an SSL certificate.
> The installer will ask and attempt to generate a Lets Encrypt cert for you.

See [docs/INSTALL.md](https://docs.acuparse.com/INSTALL) for detailed installation instructions.

Installing on a fresh instance of a Debian/Rasbian Buster(10) or Ubuntu 18.04/20.04 is the only officially supported and tested install method.

### Quick Install

- Install the base Debian/Ubuntu operating system and update.
- Download and run the installer.

    ```bash
    curl -O https://gitlab.com/acuparse/installer/raw/master/install && sudo bash install | tee ~/acuparse.log
    ```

#### Docker Compose

See [docs/DOCKER.md](https://docs.acuparse.com/DOCKER) for detailed installation instructions.

On a newly installed Debian/Ubuntu System

- Download and run the installer.
    - If you already have Docker installed, see the Docker guide.

    ```bash
    curl -O https://gitlab.com/acuparse/installer/raw/master/install_docker && \
    sudo bash install_docker full | tee ~/acuparse.log
    ```

## Additional Outputs

The primary user interface uses AJAX to pull the most recent HTML formatted data every minute.

Acuparse includes a Display mode for better viewing while in full-screen.

- Display Mode: `http(s)://<yourip/domain>/display`
    - Force light theme: `http(s)://<yourip/domain>/display?light`
    - Force dark theme: `http(s)://<yourip/domain>/display?dark`

Additionally, you can request Bootstrap 4 formatted HTML, JSON array(s), or plain text formatted for watermarking.

- See the [API Guide](https://docs.acuparse.com/API) for details.

## Troubleshooting

See [docs/TROUBLESHOOTING.md](https://docs.acuparse.com/TROUBLESHOOTING).

## What's Missing

- Advanced Data Reporting.
    - Reports can be run against the database. Open issues for custom report requests and tag them with the reports tag.
        - phpMyAdmin is an excellent tool for advanced manual reporting on your station.
- Charts and Graphing.
    - Since this is available at most external weather sites.
- Multiple Access/smartHUB/5-in-1/Atlas sensors.
    - The current framework built around a single Access/smartHUB and 5-in-1/Atlas sensor.

## Donations

If you like Acuparse, please support the project by buying me a coffee!

[![Buy Me a Coffee](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/orange_img.png)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/maxp)

## Licencing

Acuparse is open-source software. Released with an AGPL-3.0+ license. It also uses several other open source scripts.
Their licences included where available.

3rd party scripts located in `src/pub/lib`.

See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more details.

## Support and Discussion

[Join the discussion on Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/acuparse/acuparse)

- Support for the core application/bugs is handled via [GitLab Issues](https://gitlab.com/acuparse/acuparse/issues).
    - You may also open a new issue by mailing [support@acuparse.com](mailto:support@acuparse.com).
- Community support is also provided via the [Users Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/a/lists.acuparse.com/forum/#!forum/users).

If you require advanced or commercial support, send mail to [hello@acuparse.com](mailto:hello@acuparse.com).

## Release Notes

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for detailed release notes.

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details.
